---
layout: project
title:  Kamran's Krackers
short-title: Krackers
date:   2014-12-13
categories: projects
image: /images/kamrankrackers.png
---

<div class="portfolio-links">
    <a href="http://kamranpayne.com/krackers/" class="button button-primary">Go to this Project</a>
    <a href="https://github.com/kmrn/krackers/" class="button">View Source</a>
</div>

This is the portfolio entry for the details on my portfolio site that you're reading on my portfolio site. Pretty meta right?

I figured that, as a developer, I needed a decent portfolio website where I could showcase my projects, what I'm working on, and how I'm working on it. It needed to be informational and elegant. I had a pretty tough time coming up with a solid design direction, but I finally got it down after messing around with some different color palettes and layouts. The design I chose is pretty heavily inspired by Google's recent [Material Design Spec](http://google.com/design/spec). After giving it a quick read I thought that a lot of what it was saying seemed really important and made sense to me. This website in no way strictly adheres to the rules of Material, it's only inspired by it.


### Colors
Coming up with a good color palette was pretty simple. Material can give a lot of good ideas for solid color schemes. Here, I just used BlueGray along with an Accent shade of Pink. I think the contrast works nicely to bring attention to any important buttons or things.

<table class="kracker-colors">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th class="title">Primary Color</th>
      <th class="title">Accent Color</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td class="bg-lightest">#ECEFF1</td>
      <td class="p-lighter">#FF80AB</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="bg-light">#90A4AE</td>
      <td class="p">#FF4081</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="bg-medium">#607D8B</td>
      <td class="p-darker">#F50057</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="bg-dark">#455A64</td>
<!--       <td>#C51162</td> -->
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="bg-darkest">#263238</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


### Design
I wanted something pretty simple and fun. Usually when I try to design a decent UI, I try to keep in mind the "[Motherfucking Website](http://motherfuckingwebsite.com/)". It's a pretty good thing to read since it's mostly true. If I find myself working for too long on one feature, it's probably unnecessary and will only over-complicate the user's experience.

As a starting point, I used [Skeleton 2.0](http://getskeleton.com). Skeleton is a really simple pure-css grid system. Most boilerplates are way too complicated and are too heavy. Skeleton is just the basics, which gives the developer a lot of flexibility making a website.


### Templates
This website uses [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/), a really simple templating and blogging platform built with ruby. It's easy to understand, easy to use, and pretty powerful. You can check out how I have this Jekyll site laid out on its [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ron953/ron953.github.io). Skeleton and Jekyll work amazingly together and I highly recommend trying something similar in your own projects, unless you can come up with something better.


The result of all of this put together is my portfolio/dev-diary. It's most definitely not the best or perfect, but I'm pretty proud of how it turned out. I don't think any pictures are necessary, just click around I guess.
